Isaacson writes: "Jobs developed a strong relationship with Reed, but with his daughters he was more distant. As he would with others, he would occasionally focus on them, but just as often would completely ignore them when he had other things on his mind. 'He focuses on his work, and at times he has not been there for the girls,' Powell said. At one point Jobs marveled to his wife at how well their kids were turning out, 'especially since we're not always there for them.' This amused, and slightly annoyed, Powell, because she had given up her career when Reed turned two and she decided she wanted to have more children."

Apart from his wife and children, Steve Jobs's inner family circle also included his biological sister Mona Simpson. The daughter of Abdulfattah Jandali and Joanne Schieble, Mona was a brilliant writer whom Jobs discovered in 1986, after tracking down his biological parents. "My brother and I are very close," Simpson said in 1997. "I admire him enormously." Jobs said: "We're family. She's one of my best friends in the world. I call her and talk to her every couple of days." |
hippie commune, Jobs switched to a vegan diet, which he kept his whole life — with the exception of Japanese food. He used to love suhi and soba, and reportedly even created the original "sashimi shoba", to be served at Apple's cafeteria. Some of his favorite restaurants included Jinshō, Cagiest and Sushi Ran. (According to Nippon.com, "if he couldn't get a reservation at Keigetsu, a restaurant that refuses to give celebrities special treatment, he would order takeaway sushi and drive down to pick it up himself. His favorite toppings were fatty tuna, salmon, yellowtail, ocean trout, sea bream, mackerel, and saltwater eel"). He was also a regular at the Fraiche yoghurt cafe in Palo Alto, and the local Whole Foods where he would go pick up whole wheat bread and vegetables, often barefoot. But the Jobses also cultivated their own vegetables and fruits in the large garden that Laurene had set up. Their meals often consisted of "just one vegetable. Lots of that one vegetable.|
Jobs, who was also 'strictly business' at work, suffered no waste of time. In one interview, he explained that it was why he wore the same thing everyday, his famous black mock turtleneck: so he didn't have to waste time picking what to wear every morning. There are several explanations as to how he ended up wearing so many turtlenecks. In the biography Steve Jobs, Isaacson recalls Jobs explaining, "So I asked Issey [Miyake] to make me some of his black turtlenecks that I liked, and he made me like a hundred of them. […] That's what I wear. I have enough to last for the rest of my life." John Lasseter remembered a slightly different story: "He found this one really great black turtleneck which he loved – I think it was Issey Miyake – so tried to buy another one and they didn't have any more. He called the company and asked if they would make another one, and they refused. So he said: 'Fine, how many do you have to make before I can buy them?' So they made them – I think he has a closet full of them.'".|
Steve Jobs spent the last twenty years of his life in a simple country house in Palo Alto. Although the house is larger than your typical suburban house, and relatively expensive at around $4 million, it does not stand out in the wealthy city of Palo Alto, and is a testament to Jobs's modest lifestyle. Despite his net worth of over $8 billion, his garden had no walls and he did not even lock the front door.
Time reporters Cathy Booth and David Jackson had a glimpse of the life at the Jobses in 1997. They wrote: "Laurene has planted a garden of wildflowers, herbs and vegetables all around. The rooms are sparsely decorated, the only extravagances being Ansel Adams photographs. We dine as the Jobses always do: both are strict vegans, eating no meat products. Dinner is pasta with raw tomatoes, fresh raw corn from the garden, steamed cauliflower and a salad of raw shredded carrots. While the adults eat, their six-year-old son picks lemon verbena and other herbs in the garden for the after-dinner tea. |
The personality of Steve Jobs remains a mystery to many, including myself who have been studying for over a decade. The most difficult thing to understand was why he kept berating people around him, including those he loved, even though he was very emotional. His soulmate Jony Ive complained about it to Walter Isaacson: "He's a very, very sensitive guy. That's one of the things that makes his antisocial behavior, his rudeness, so unconscionable. I can understand why people who are thick-skinned and unfeeling can be rude, but not sensitive people. I once asked him why he gets so mad about stuff. He said, “But I don't stay mad.” He has this very childish ability to get really worked up about something, and it doesn't stay with him at all. But there are other times, I think honestly, when he's very frustrated, and his way to achieve catharsis is to hurt somebody. And I think he feels he has a liberty and a license to do that. The normal rules of social engagement, he feels, don't apply to him. Because of how very sensitive he is, he knows exactly how to efficiently and effectively hurt someone. And he does do that."|

